= JRuote

Support JRuote version: 1.0.x

JRuote builds Java adapter for embedding ruby workflow engine ruote in Java by JRuby.
Please read ruote docs (http://openwferu.rubyforge.org/) for understanding how ruote works.

== Use it in your project

* Download jruote-1.0.0.jar (including all ruby gems need) from http://github.com/flextao/jruote/downloads
* Download dependency jars from libs directory
* Write an engine.rb and put it in the root directory of your Java source directory.
* Write an Engine.java to initialize the engine.rb with an com.flextao.jruote.EngineAdapter instance.
* There is one thing you must be very careful

  The last line of engine.rb code must be the engine object instance you created inside the engine.rb
  so that jruote EngineAdapter could get the engine instance. Take a look the simple example if you don't
  get it. 

* Here is some tips of embedding a ruby gem in Java by JRuby: http://blog.flextao.com/index.php/2009/05/30/tips-of-embedding-ruby-gem-in-java/

== Examples

=== Simple example

The following is a simple engine.rb put in root directory of Java source:

  require 'openwfe/engine'
  require 'logger'
  
  application_context = {}
  application_context[:engine_name] = "simple engine"
  application_context[:logger] = Logger.new STDOUT
  application_context[:logger].level = Logger::ERROR

  OpenWFE::Engine.new(application_context)

A simple process definition(simplest_process_definition.rb put in root directory of Java source):

  class SimplestProcessDefinition < OpenWFE::ProcessDefinition
    sequence do
      alice
      bob
    end
  end

Launch the engine:

  InputStream engineDefinition = getClass().getResourceAsStream("/engine.rb");
  engine = new EngineAdapter(engineDefinition);
  engine.registerSyncParticipant("alice", new LoggerParticipant("alice"));
  engine.registerSyncParticipant("bob", new LoggerParticipant("bob"));
  engine.ready();

Launch a instance of the simplest process:

  URL processDefinition = getClass().getResource("/simplest_process_definition.rb");
  engine.launch(processDefinition);

See EngineAdapterTest.java for more simple examples. Details about the engine settings please read ruote documents.

=== ActiveRecord engine example

  See examples in 'examples' directory, an activerecord engine currently have, please take a look
  the README file inside the example directory.

== Build jruote jar

  clone the repository to your local
  run rake 'rake ruote:get_from_github' in terminal to get ruote and its dependencies from github
  run ant 'ant' in terminal to build the jruote.jar in targets directory

== Dependencies

runtime jars:

  jruby-complete-1.3.0RC2.jar
  log4j-1.2.15.jar
  log5j-1.2.jar

all ruby gems need except ruote and its dependencies is inside vendor directory.

options:

  persistence.jar, hibernate-annotations.jar (hibernate entities in package 'com.flextao.jruote.models')
  jdbc_adapter_internal.jar (when you are launching active record engine)

== License

JRuote is available under an MIT License Copyright (c) 2009 Flextao.

== Author

Li Xiao <xli@flextao.com>
